>> Brian Holt: Context, I teach this
intentionally pretty late in the course,
or in terms of,
late of the fundamentals of React.
It's a powerful tool.
And I see new React developers get
tempted to use it all over the place,
because it simplifies
the writing part of React.
And I will say it greatly complicates
the maintenance part of React.
This is another way of me begging you
as your perhaps future coworkers,
you'd be very sparing
with your use of context.
With great power comes
great responsibility,
I think I'm the first
person to ever say that.
[LAUGH] No,
it's just props come from parent to child,
and it becomes very explicit,
the data flow of your app.
Context is being able to
dump data into a portal and
then somewhere else being able to
receive data out of the portal.
And so if you have five components that
are passing data from parent to child,
it can get a little annoying.
That problem is called
the prop drilling problem.
It's tempting to use context there, right?
I'm gonna say, unless you're using
that context in multiple places,
that state in multiple different places,
just deal with the prop drilling.
I know it's annoying, but it is helpful.
But there are some things that
are legitimately what I would call
app level state.
A really good example,
this would be like a user, right?
So if someone logs into your website,
that doesn't just affect one part of your
website, it affects everything
in your website, right?
You're showing the user their information,
their checkout information,
their address, right?
And that's all pulling from
the same piece of user information.
So you could have App.jsx,
have useState user, right?
And then pass that into everything.
That doesn't seem like a good idea to me,
right?
I think it's better to say hey, we have
this app level state that is the user,
and then anyone can pull out of
the context who the user is.
Does that make sense?
So you're looking for what I call app
level state as opposed to view level state
or localized state,
that's where context is useful.
Theme is another one that will
sometimes come up, right?
If someone switches their theme that
affects not just one piece of your code,
it affects a lot of
the pieces of your code.
So you might use theme as
another piece of context.
>> Brian Holt: A lot of time libraries,
so React router or tan stack router,
which we're gonna look
at here in a little bit.
Those will use context quite a bit,
it's also made for those things.
And you don't have to care about those
things because that's their problem
not yours.
So in our app here, we have a header.
And I wanna put a little indicator
there of what's in your cart.
And then the other thing that you can
say about carts being as a function of
context is, if someone navigates
away from this order page.
So let's say there was an about page or
a contact page,
which we'll build here in just a second.
If they navigated to the contact page, and
then they navigated back to the order
page, what would happen to the cart?
>> Brian Holt: Disappear, right?
Why?
If this gets unmounted,
all of its state goes away, right?
It doesn't get saved if it gets
removed from the DOM, right?
So if I come over here to App.jsx,
we can literally do this,
we're gonna add a bunch
of stuff right here.
I'm just gonna remove this, okay?
So I just removed it from the DOM,
which would be the same thing
from unrendering it, right?
And then I'm gonna add it back.
Notice that the cart is empty again,
right?
Because it got totally thrown away.
It would be the same thing if you routed
to a different page and came back.
Now again, we are in the business
of making pizza money, right?
[LAUGH] So,
we wanna keep that cart full, right?
Always be keeping cart fulls,
that's what they say, right?
I think so.
[LAUGH] So, we wanna preserve the cart
between page loads, at this point,
what I'm getting at.
So we're gonna use context to do that.
Now, really, what you could do, which
would be probably a much simpler model of
doing this, is you would just say,
useState cart right there, right, and
just pass it into all of them.
But we wanna learn about context, I'm
gonna show you how to do it with context.
So first thing, let's build the header
that's going to read from the cart, okay?
So new page we're gonna
make it called Header.jsx.
We're gonna say export default
function Header(), okay?
Return, and we're gonna put a <nav>
cuz we all like semantic markup.
Remember when that used to
be a really big thing, and
people would get all bent out
of shape about semantic markup?
No, don't use divs, always use navs.
What happened to those arguments?
I feel like we should
argue more about that.
>> Brian Holt: Padre Gino's Pizza,
cool, and
then we're gonna say div
className = "nav- cart".
And then I'm gonna put
an emoji in here of a cart.
>> Brian Holt: Span className
= "nav-cart-number".
Put any number you want in here,
I'm just gonna put 5.
And cool, that will be enough for
now for our Header.
Let's put that into App.jsx.
I think we can just replace,
so we're gonna import Header
from Header, and
I think we can just replace this.
Yep, Header.
>> Brian Holt: You'll see that
this is kind of turning out to be
just a composition of a lot of
other functions that we've made, or
a lot of other components.
It's kind of what React is, for the most
part, it's just composing components and
other components.
All right, so now we got this like
a little fun cart thing up there, right?
Obviously, 5 is fake, right?
This isn't actually reading
from the real cart.
So how would we do that?
Well, think about this for a second now,
how would you do that right now,
not having learned about context yet,
how would you do it?
There's no cart in here, right?
So you would have to do useState here,
and you'd have to say,
cart = (cart), and you would have to say,
cart = (cart) here, but
then we would have to actually
pass in setCart here, right?
Because then you end up with
a bunch of fallout effects of that.
Well, nobody wants to do that, right?
So, let's go ahead and
do it differently with these contexts.
>> Brian Holt: So I've seen people do
this with a bunch of different patterns.
I saw one recently that I kinda like,
so I'm gonna teach that one today.
They just created a file
called contexts.jsx,
and they throw all of their
context into one context file.
Thought that was kinda cool
because it's never very much.
My Context files used to
be literally one line and
then I would export it and
it was just very short and
sweet, but more short and dumb.
We're gonna say createContext,
which is gonna come from React,
okay, and then we're gonna export const,
so this one, you actually wanna do a name.
If you're gonna do this pattern where you
have multiple different contexts coming
from one file, it's important that
you would do named exports, right?
>> Brian Holt: Export const
CartContext = createContext().
You can leave it like this if you want to,
and just call good there, for
the sake of maybe your future TypeScript
self and/or future testing self.
It is useful with context to give it,
this is the shape of what is going
to be held inside of this context.
So we're gonna hold a hook in here, right?
That's what we're gonna do,
cuz we're gonna hold the state
that's both mutable and readable.
So what is the return type for a hook?
>> Brian Holt: It's an array.
And what is cart?
An array.
>> Brian Holt: And then what is this?
Sum function.
>> Brian Holt: Right?
That's what a hook looks like, right?
So I'm literally just
gonna put that right here.
>> Brian Holt: So, I show that too cuz
I know this looks obtuse and weird, but
that's why you're doing it.
Why this is nice?
As soon as you pop this into TypeScript,
TypeScript will be like, okay, I got this.
This is an array with this, and it's just
gonna check it and get it right away.
So it's just a good habit to get into.
>> Brian Holt: And even though we're not
using TypeScript anywhere in this project,
VS Code does an okay job
of observing types in here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
let's go set up our context,
go to App.jsx, we're going to import
from "./contexts".
And the first thing we're gonna
do is we're gonna wrap our app
in this thing called CartContext.Provider,
>> Brian Holt: Usually strict mode is
always gonna be the outermost thing.
The order inside of it really
usually doesn't make a difference.
So what is CartContext.Provider doing for
us?
Well, the first thing is that can
be kind of strange with React,
you can have components that don't
actually render real markup.
All they do is they act as
kind of a pass through, but
they augment the ability of
the components inside of them.
And that's what this provider is doing.
It's now making whatever value
that we're gonna pass into it,
which we'll do momentarily,
we have not done yet.
And it's gonna make that
available everywhere inside of it.
Now, what's kind of cool about this is,
we're wrapping our whole app in it,
but we could do something like this,
where now only pizza of the day
has access to this context.
Kinda cool, right?
We could even have two
different context providers and
have each one of them wrapped in it.
That seems like a weird idea, and I'm not
super into that one, but you could do it.
You can even have multiple cart contexts
kind of layer out from each other.
And what it's gonna do is it's
gonna find the nearest one, right?
So it's gonna find the one
that's closest to it.
So if I had this, and then this, this is
totally, I think it's value, yeah, okay.
>> Brian Holt: If I tried to access
the context from PizzaOfTheDay,
what value would it get back?
>> Speaker 2: 1.
>> Brian Holt: 1, now, again,
you might be thinking,
well, why would I do this?
And I'm also asking you,
why would you do that?
[LAUGH] I don't know
why you would do that.
But it is possible, and
it's why they had this kind of weird API.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
going back to where we were, we're gonna
say CartContext.Provider,
a small footnote here.
They're making it so in React 19, you
can just say CartContext like that, and
leave off the provider, it's kind of nice.
>> Brian Holt: So if you're watching
this with React 19, just go ahead and
drop the .Provider.
Now we wanna hook that we
wanna pass into the context,
so what we can do is we
can say const cartHook =,
notice we're not destructuring,
useState like that.
And then the value here = cartHook,
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Brian Holt: Remember,
normally you would say cart, setCart and
use that kind of destructuring here.
Here we're passing the whole thing in.
>> Speaker 3: Does that mean that there's
a setter that's also been assigned within
the cartHook object?
>> Brian Holt: You got it, so
now we can call that within order,
cuz we need to, right?
We have to be able to set
that hook from inside order,
or else this whole kind
of thing falls apart.
Now, you might be thinking yourselves,
well,
does that mean you can
set that hook anywhere?
And yes, you can, and yes it is a foot
gun, which is why I'm just kind of trying
to steer you away from
context as much as possible.
But there you go.